This document attempts to summarize the licensing of the XQuest2 source code.

I did not write XQuest2 and I am not a lawyer, so do not take this as any kind
of valid legal opinion. This is a layman's attempt to make sense of various
licensing texts.

In my non-lawyer opinion, the short version is: Copying and distributing are
explicitly allowed. The license neither explicitly allows nor explicitly
forbids distributing modified versions of XQuest2.





# XLIB - C code

Themie Gouthas (and other contributors) wrote XLIB for DOS. In XLIBREF1.DOC of
http://ftp.lanet.lv/ftp/mirror/x2ftp/msdos/programming/xlib/xlib06.zip the
author states:

   "I informally reserve all rights to the code in XLIB. Rights to
    contributed code is also assumed to be reserved by the original authors."

but three sentences later states:

    "It has been placed in the public domain for the benefit of all"

It seems more reasonable (to me) that the author(s) may have originally
reserved 'all rights' to the software, but then later released the code to
public domain, rather than the opposite (release the code to the public domain,
and then later 'reserve all rights').

So, it appears (to me) that the XLIB software, written in C code, is in the
public domain.





# XLIB - Pascal code

Tristan Tarrant converted selected parts of the XLIB C code to Turbo/Borland
Pascal and appears to have released his Pascal code to the public domain. In
XLIB.DOC of http://www.filegate.net/pub/pascal-net/pasgraph/xlibpas.zip the
author writes:

    "It has been placed in the public domain for the benefit of all"

So, it appears (to me) that the XLIB software, written in Pascal code, is in
the public domain.





# XLIB - XQUEST

Mark 'AtomJack' Mackey, the author of XQuest2, modified the Turbo/Borland
Pascal version of XLIB to suit the needs of XQuest2. He released the source
code of XQuest2, but did not include his modified version of the XLIB library.
Since the author released all the source files of XQuest2, the fact that he
did not include his modified version of the XLIB library seems (to me) like
more of an oversight than an intentional act of withholding. Fortunately, when
he released the source code, he included a binary version (XLIB.TPU, generated
by Turbo Pascal 6) of his modified XLIB library.

The LICENSE.DOC included in XQuest2 is a bit confusing. It states:

   "The game may not be included in a CD-ROM or other compilation"

but later, states:

    "This software may be included on a floppy disk or CD-ROM"

The XQuest2 license allows copying and/or distributing the software, provided
certain files are included. The license neither explicitly allows nor
explicitly forbids distributing modified versions of XQuest2.




# Attempts to contact the author of XQuest2.

It seems that Mark Mackey wrote XQuest2 while he was attending Cambridge
University. Based on a document included with some source code (collide.zip)
that he released in 1995, there was once an XQUEST webpage hosted at the
University of Cambridge: https://www.ch.cam.ac.uk/MMRG/people/mdm/xquest.html.
The link no longer works.

The XQuest2 source code contains a University of Cambridge e-mail address
(mdm1004@cus.cam.ac.uk) to contact the author. I sent an e-mail message to that
address (in Dec 2021), but it was returned as undeliverable.

The XQuest2 source code contains a postal address (Mark Mackey, c/o Trinity
Hall, Cambridge CB2 1TJ), but given that:
    1) XQuest2 was released around 1996,
    2) the XQuest2 website at Cambridge is defunct,
    3) email sent to the Cambridge email address was returned as undeliverable,
I think it's reasonable to conclude that any postal mail sent to that address
will not reach its intended recipient.

It seems that once Mark Mackey left Cambridge he created a website for XQuest2
at: http://www.swallowtail.org/xquest/ As of Feb 2022, the XQuest2 webpage is
still accessible. The website states, in part "The source code to XQuest is
available. ... [It] should still compile and run and will be useful for
those who've been asking how the game works."

The web page provides an email address (mark@swallowtail.org) to contact the
author. When I sent an e-mail message, I apparently received a response, but my
e-mail provider notified me that it detected a virus in the response and
automatically deleted the entire response.

The web page also provides a link to the source code
http://www.swallowtail.org/xquest/xquest_1.3_src.tar.gz, but the link no
longer works.



In May 1995, Mark Mackey released some collision detection code titled:
"A Pixel-Precision Method For Detecting Sprite Collision". A copy can be found
at http://ftp.lanet.lv/ftp/mirror/x2ftp/msdos/programming/theory/collide.zip.
In the included COLLIDE.DOC, he states, in part:

    "Permission is given to distribute this code freely, or to
     distribute modified forms of this software..."

His University of Cambridge e-mail address, website, and postal address (all
mentioned above) are included in the document.

